Diverse - historical - natural and cultural tourist attraction sites.monuments, churches, monasteries and mosques, Ethiopia is home for the second highest mountain (4620m or 15,175ft) Semien Mountain in Africa and the lowest Danakil Depression, (125m below SL). Eight sites are  registered by the United Nations Education Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO) as world heritage sites. Ethiopia (Axumite) was a powerful state between the Roman Empire and Persia. The granite obelisk 1700 yrs old 160 ton, (24m) looted by Italians and returned in April 2005. The one that fell to the  ground due to structural collapse is 33m. religious prosperity- Christianity was  introduced to the country in the 4th Century and thus Axum is known to be center of religion and civilization. The first Ethiopian Orthodox Church (Zion Mariam) is  African oldest church Axum went into decline between the 7th and 8th centuries AD. 
 Isolated from Europe Christianity The power moved southward to Yeha-Lalibela Lalibela is famous for its 11 rock-hewn churches built in the 12th century and still, in use, The famous Bete -Giorgis is still attracting tourists from all over the world. GONDAR- It is known  for its castles built by Emperor Fasiladas and his successors from 1632-1730 at the royal  enclosure Era of the Princes was characterized by the turmoil caused by local rulers 
 competing against each other. Oromo people - The Oromos have an egalitarian social system called GADA. GADA was a form of constitutional government and social system.DEMOCRATIC Leaders are democratically elected every eight years. Social classification is according to age with defined responsibility. To run for the presidency (ABA GADA), one must pass through all the stages. The system is in place to remove corrupts. Gada is still practiced  to a limited scale. The new Ethiopia is known as a country of mosaic of cultures. More than  80 languages and 200 dialects are spoken throughout the country. These ethnic groups have their
  own way of clothing, hairstyles, songs, dances, and arts Ethiopians have a unique calendar and unique alphabet. Independence- Ethiopia is the only African country never been colonized by Europeans. Ethiopian patriots(Arbegna) defeated the Italian colonial at the battle of Adwa. Education: Traditional and Modern Traditional; Church and Monasteries. has a history of 1500 Yrs. coffee, grain sorghum, and castor bean-originated from Ethiopia Its organization limited access to many. Contributed to literature, art, arithmetic, astronomy, Equivalently Madrasa run by mosques. In the 5th century, monasteries were also introduced by the monks from Syria. These monks initiated the translation of the Bible into Ge’ez- one of the ancient languages in Ethiopia. These monasteries also began the first form of schools.  Has curriculum with different stages.